# granville-bunting-model

In this workspace, we are going to build a model (use Python) to model a potential project in the 1100 through 800 blocks of Granville Street (Vancouver, BC), wherein we hang "bunting" (I.e., a rope with triangular pendant flags attached to it... just as a "festive" street decoration while Granville St is closed to vehicle traffic (pedestrian and emergency/service vehicle access only) for several weeks this summery during which Vancouver hosts FIFA games. 

The bunting would be strung across the street, in a zig-zag diagonal pattern at roughly 45 degrees relative to the street axis, connected to lamp/utility posts along the sidewalk on either side of the street (using standard lamp post mounting hardware COV commonly uses to attach signage and other relatively lightweight objects to posts). 

The 1100 and 1000 blocks of Granville Street are 4 lanes wide (2 lanes in each direction), and are basically identical to each other in terms of layout. The 900 and 800 blocks are narrower. All blocks have electric bus lines running in both directions. Pairs of live electric power delivery cables run parallel to the street (located directly above the dashed white line separating both lanes on either side of the street for 1100 and 1000 blocks, and down the middle the one lane running in each direction for the 900 and 800 blocks). Lamp posts are located about 3 metres back from the curb on the sidewalk. The live power wires hang about 15 cm below cables strung across the street from pairs of opposite lamp posts. The live power wires are quite heavy, so even with high tension the support cables they are pulled downward about 50 cm across the 6 m horizonal gap from lamp post mounting point to the power cable mounting point. Assume the support cables run horizontally between the two power line mount points in the middle. Assume horizontal distance between lamposts is 18.9 meters for the 1100 and 1000 blocks, 15.0 meters for the 900 block, and 12.1 meters for the 800 block.

The bunting would be hung below the bus power cables, and for safety would need a minimum clearance of 30 cm from support cables and 100 cm clearance from any live wires. Horizontal distance between bunting segment mounting points on lamp posts (as it zig zags across the street) is 20.0 meters (1100 and 1000 blocks), 17.0 meters (900 block) and 15 meters (800 block). Bunting will sag (in a hyperbolic trajectory?) between mount points. Sag will be a function of bunting mass per unit length (20 grams per meter), and bunting segment tension (assume bunting mount points at each end of a given segment are always at the same height). Minimum bunting clearance at lowest point to road surface (mid point between mount points, while will always be directly above street centerline) must be 5.0 meters (to allow emergency vehicles to pass undernear unimpeded). Assume crown of street along centerline is 15 cm elevation above the surface of the sidewalk, and that sidewalk surfaces on either side of the street are at the same elevation. 

We measured angles from "eye height" of person measuring to powerline support cable mounting bracket for 8 lamp posts along this block (4 pairs across the stree from each other, one pair at each end of the block and two pairs in the middle of the block). In all cases, distance from posts while measuring angle was 9.10 meters. Angles (theta) were all 25 degrees up from horizontal. Height from ground to eyeline was 1.83 m.

Is it even possible to hang bunting while maintaining all required clearances as described above?